TRUE



#1
Janamat Party quits Madhesh Province government

Janakpurdham, January 24
Janamat Party withdrew its support and quit the Madhesh Province government.Minister for Education and Culture and Minister for Labour and Transport who were part of the provincial government on behalf of the Janamat Party submitted resignation letters to Chief Minister Saroj Kumar Yadav.Spokesperson of the Madhesh Province government and Minister for Home, Communications and Law Mohammad Samim informed that the ministers from the Janamat Party had collectively submitted their resignation to Chief Minister Yadav.Earlier, Janamat Party’s parliamentary party leader and Minister for Education and Culture Mahesh Prasad Yadav had submitted a letter to the Province’s Chief Hari Shanker Mishra withdrawing its support to the government.Yadav shared that the ministers from the Janamat Party had resigned since the government after a year of its formation failed to perform effectively and did not allow the atmosphere for the ministers of his party to function well.The Janamat Party has 13 province assembly members in the Madhesh Pradesh.

#2=> predicting correctly
Nepali Congress leaders submit 1,061 signatures calling for Hindu nation to Sher Bahadur Deuba

February 22, 2024
KATHMANDU(Onlinekhabar)-Nepali Congress leaders who are part of the campaign to establish a Hindu nation have submitted the signatures of 1,061 people to the party president, Sher Bahadur Deuba.Lokesh Dhakal, the co-coordinator of the campaign, 42 central members, including former Dr Shanshak Koirala, have signed it.Campaign members were collecting signatures from the first day of the Mahasamiti meeting, which started on Monday. In front of the Mahasamiti meeting hall at Godavari Sunrise Convention Center, the leaders of the campaign had set up a tent to collect signatures.
The agenda of establishing a Hindu nation, however, was not discussed in the Mahasamiti meeting.
In the previous Mahasamiti meeting as well, 714 people signed in favour of a Hindu nation and submitted it to the party president. Additionally, 22 central members submitted their signatures to Deuba along with the demand to include the agenda for discussion in the Mahasamiti meeting regarding the establishment of a Hindu nation.


#3
Pushpa Kamal Dahal calls for unity among progressive forces to institutionalise achievements

February 13, 2024
KATHMANDU(Onlinekhabar)-Prime Minister and CPN (Maoist Centre) Chair Pushpa Kamal Dahal has said time demands all forces that advocated for and contributed to bringing about change to unite.In his address to a party programme on the occasion of the 29th People’s War Day on February 13, leader Dahal was of the view that institutionalisation of the political achievements so far is possible only through unity among progressive forces.He also utilised the moment to call on Maoist leaders and cadres to take responsibility for protecting the achievements of the people’s war. Highlighting the challenges faced, he warned that some forces are attempting to reverse the accomplishments made in the areas of socialism, good governance, social justice, and prosperity.Party Chair Dahal also welcomed newcomers to the party from Dang and Surkhet who formally joined the party. Party Standing Committee member and Minister for Communication and Information Technology, Rekha Sharma, was also present on the occasion.The party observed Fagun 1 each year in the Nepali calendar as the People’s War Day in commemoration of the formal commencement of the People’s War (1996-2005).

#4
PM Dahal urges swift action on cooperative challenges and enhanced regulation

Kathmandu, January 17 
KATHMANDU(Onlinekhabar)-Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal has instructed the prompt resolution of issues about cooperatives.The directive was issued during a discussion held on Wednesday in Baluwatar, where Prime Minister Dahal conveyed his instructions to relevant ministries and agencies. Emphasising the need for provisions in the Act that elevate cooperatives as the building blocks of socialism, Prime Minister Dahal underscored the importance of focusing on collectivism and the interests of the lower class. He advocated for the organisation of cooperatives through the adoption of both long-term and immediate measures to address their challenges. Prime Minister Dahal specifically directed the Ministry of Land Management, Cooperatives, and Poverty Alleviation, along with other pertinent agencies, to undertake necessary groundwork in both immediate and long-term approaches to resolving cooperative issues. He emphasised the creation of an effective regulatory body for monitoring cooperatives. In his instructions, Prime Minister Dahal urged the existing regulatory organisations associated with cooperatives to categorise them as either sound, distressed, or submerged and to submit a comprehensive report. He also stressed the importance of safeguarding the funds deposited by savers in cooperatives, calling for effective measures to be implemented in coordination with all three levels of government.

#5

Ukraine sets conditions for release of Nepalis under its custody


Kathmandu, December 15
KATHMANDU(Onlinekhabar)-Ukraine has set a condition for the release of Nepalis captured from the battlefield after joining the Russian Army. While it is reported that Ukraine has taken a certain position and set certain conditions in response to diplomatic efforts led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on behalf of Nepal, the exact nature of this position remains unclear.According to diplomatic sources, Nepal is actively pursuing initiatives to release its citizens serving in the Russian Army through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ukrainian embassy in Delhi, and its embassy in Germany.Ukraine, however, has not provided a formal response to Nepal’s correspondence at this point. However, diplomatic channels indicate that Ukraine has communicated certain requirements or commitments it expects from Nepal to release these individuals.“Until now, Ukraine has not sent any official response to the diplomatic notes sent by Nepal. But it is understood that they are looking for a commitment about what will happen after their release”, a high-ranking government source told Onlinekhabar on the condition of anonymity. “Nepal is waiting for a concrete formal answer from Ukraine. Till then, Nepal is engaging in internal discussions to determine the legal commitments it is willing to make.”As of now, the number of Nepalis who enlisted in the Russian Army and were apprehended by Ukrainian security forces has risen to four, with six reported dead. While data is available for those captured by Ukrainian forces, the numbers for Nepalis in other Russian military units remain unconfirmed.Foreign Minister NP Saud has confirmed that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has initiated diplomatic efforts for the release of the four Nepalis held by Ukrainian security forces. However, he did not provide specific details regarding the nature of these initiatives or the progress made in the diplomatic process.“We are seeking help from the embassy of Ukraine in Delhi and the Nepali embassy in Germany. We hope to find a way to bring them back soon,” said Saud.Saud, however, did not want to talk about the conditions put forward by Ukraine.“We are more focused on what we can do to bring them back at the earliest rather than focussing on the conditions,” he said.According to sources, Ukraine is awaiting a response from Nepal regarding the matter of preventing Nepalis individuals from participating in the war by enlisting in the Russian Army. Additionally, Ukraine is seeking clarification on the legal actions Nepal intends to take after the repatriation of Nepalis currently under Ukrainian control.As of now, the exact number of Nepalis enlisting in the Russian Army is not confirmed, but it is believed to be around 500 individuals.


FALSE


#1
Ncell paid over 2 billion in royalty and RTDF
February 22, 2024
KATHMANDU(Onlinekhabar)-Ncell has contributed the most to royalty and the Rural Telecommunication Development Fund (RTDF) in the last fiscal year. According to the Nepal Telecommunication Authority, Ncell has paid over Rs 2 billion in revenue in the last fiscal year.This company paid Rs 1.47 billion as royalty and Rs 703.75 million to the government as RTDF in the last fiscal year 2022/23. The amount paid to the government in 2021/22 was Rs 1.58 billion. Similarly, the contribution to RTDF was Rs 709.1 million.According to the provisions of the NEA, all service providers must pay four per cent royalty and two per cent RTDF of their income annually by mid-January (end of Nepali month Poush) according to the Telecommunications Act 1997 and Telecommunications Regulations 1998.According to the NEA, only 31 companies have submitted the royalty and RTDF of the last fiscal year 2022/2023, which includes Nepal Telecom, Ncell, Worldlink, etc. There are 121 such companies in operation and 90 companies still have to pay the fee.According to the NEA, so far this year Rs 4.821 billion royalty and RTDF amount has been collected.

#2
Preparation to hand over paragliding and zipline regulations to the local level
February 16, 2024 
The government has proposed to give the regulation of paragliding and zipline-related services to the local level.In the draft of the bill prepared for the amendment of the Local Government Operation Act 2017, it has been proposed to assign the regulation and management of paragliding and zipline to the local level.The bill also proposes that the local level can declare tourist and cultural areas within their area only according to the criteria determined by the federal government. Currently, there is a provision in the Act that the local government can make such an announcement without any criteria if it wishes.The Act mentions that the local level can now create, implement and regulate policies and legal standards related to cooperatives in a way that does not conflict with the laws of the corporations and provincial governments.

#3
Sugar industries facing sugarcane shortage

Nawalparasi, February 14

Sugar industries in Nawalparasi West have been facing a shortage of sugarcane, the main raw material for the industries. As a result, the sugar industries here have not been able to operate at full capacity.Since sugarcane production was not as expected in Nawalparasi West the sugar industries were forced to purchase sugarcane from outside districts. As a result, industrialists have said that the cost has increased.The Sunwal-based Lumbini Sugar Industry is purchasing sugarcane from Kapilvastu and Nawalparasi East. Head of administration of the Industry, Kush Subedi, said that due to the lack of sufficient sugarcane production in the district sugarcane had to be imported from other districts. He said that the industry has purchased 15,000 quintals of sugarcane this year from Kapilvastu alone.
Three big sugar industries in the district have said that they are not able to function as per their target due to the shortage of sugarcane.The Bagmati Khadsari Sugar Industry in Susta and Indira Sugar Agro Industries Pvt. Ltd. in Pratappur also stated that due to a lack of sugarcane, they could not function to their full capacity. A total of four sugar factories are operating in the district.
Meanwhile, due to non-payment for their produce for a long time, the farmers are gradually turning to alternative crops for farming.

#4
Nepal to play at least 15 T20I matches before World Cup

Kathmandu, February 20

Nepal will play at least 15 T20I matches between now and the 2024 T20 World Cup. Nepal is set to participate in the T20 World Cup, to be held in the US and West Indies from June 2 onwards. Nepal have been drawn in Group D alongside South Africa, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, and the Netherlands.In anticipation of the T20 World Cup, Nepal has initiated special preparations. It has been confirmed that Nepal will play in at least 15 T20I matches before the tournament starting with the triangular T20I series against the Netherlands and Namibia after completing of the ongoing CWC League 2 series.
The triangular T20I series featuring Nepal, Namibia, and the Netherlands is scheduled to take place from February 27 to March 5. Each team will play two matches in the series, with the top two teams advancing to the final. Nepal is set to play a minimum of four and a maximum of five matches during this series.Following the triangular series, Nepal will travel to Hong Kong for a four-nation T20I series involving Nepal, Hong Kong, UAE, and Oman. Nepal is guaranteed to participate in at least three matches. However, details regarding this series are yet to be officially announced.Subsequently, Nepal will travel to India to compete in a triangular T20 series against Gujarat and Baroda. This series will be held from March 31 to April 7, featuring two matches each followed by a final between the top two teams.After the series in India, Nepal will head to Oman to participate in the ACC Premier Cup, specifically the ACC T20 Premier Cup, scheduled from April 10 to April 23. During the group stage, Nepal will play in a minimum of four matches. If they progress to the final via the semi-finals, they will play two additional matches.All matches apart from the ones in India will be officially recognised as T20Is.With a chance at reaching the final and ICC’s warm-up matches before the world cup along with its series in India, Nepal might likely play around 25 to 30 matches before they face the Netherlands in their first match on June 4.

#5
Dipendra Singh Airee signs for ILT20 team Gulf Giants

Home » Sports » Cricket » Dipendra Singh Airee signs for ILT20 team Gulf Giants

Dipendra Singh Airee signs for ILT20 team Gulf Giants

Kathmandu, February 8

Nepali all-rounder Dipendra Singh Airee has been signed by International League T20 franchise team Gulf Giants.Gulf Giants, based in the UAE, said their scouting team had been monitoring Airee’s recent performances for Nepal and had selected him for his all-round cricketing skills.“I am honoured to be a part of Gulf Giants in ILT20. It’s a fantastic opportunity, and I am eager to contribute to the team’s success. I appreciate the confidence the franchise has shown in my abilities, and I am ready to give my best on the field,” said Airee after signing for the Gulf Giants.Dipendra Singh Airee made a name globally after hitting a record nine-ball half-century against Mongolia during the Asian Games in China.